skills/plan-writer/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: plan-writer
description: "Use when you have a spec or requirements for a multi-step task, before touching code. Creates comprehensive implementation plans with bite-sized tasks assuming zero codebase context. Triggers - plan, write plan, implementation plan, break this down."
license: MIT
metadata:
  version: "1.0.0"
  priority: "6"
argument-hint: "[design-doc-or-spec]"
disable-model-invocation: false
user-invocable: true
context: fork
agent: general-purpose
allowed-tools: Read Glob Grep Bash(git:*) Bash(find:*)
---

# PlanWriter - Implementation Planning

Write comprehensive implementation plans assuming the engineer has **zero context** for the codebase and questionable taste. Document everything they need: which files to touch, complete code, testing steps, verification commands. Deliver as bite-sized tasks.

**Announce at start:** "I'm using the plan-writer skill to create the implementation plan."

**Input:** Design document from `design-agent` + Context Snapshot from `context-agent`.

**Save plans to:** `docs/plans/YYYY-MM-DD-<feature-name>.md`

---

## Bite-Sized Task Granularity

**Each step is one action (2-5 minutes):**
- "Write the failing test" - step
- "Run it to make sure it fails" - step
- "Implement the minimal code to make the test pass" - step
- "Run the tests and make sure they pass" - step
- "Commit" - step

---

## Plan Document Header

**Every plan MUST start with this header:**

```markdown
# [Feature Name] Implementation Plan

> **For Claude:** REQUIRED SUB-SKILL: Use supernova:plan-executor to implement this plan task-by-task.

**Goal:** [One sentence describing what this builds]

**Architecture:** [2-3 sentences about approach]

**Tech Stack:** [Key technologies/libraries]

---
```

## Task Structure

````markdown
### Task N: [Component Name]

**Files:**
- Create: `exact/path/to/file.py`
- Modify: `exact/path/to/existing.py:123-145`
- Test: `tests/exact/path/to/test.py`

**Step 1: Write the failing test**

```python
def test_specific_behavior():
    result = function(input)
    assert result == expected
```

**Step 2: Run test to verify it fails**

Run: `pytest tests/path/test.py::test_name -v`
Expected: FAIL with "function not defined"

**Step 3: Write minimal implementation**

```python
def function(input):
    return expected
```

**Step 4: Run test to verify it passes**

Run: `pytest tests/path/test.py::test_name -v`
Expected: PASS

**Step 5: Commit**

```bash
git add tests/path/test.py src/path/file.py
git commit -m "feat: add specific feature"
```
````

---

## Execution Handoff

After saving the plan, offer execution choice:

**"Plan complete and saved to `docs/plans/<filename>.md`. Two execution options:**

**1. Subagent-Driven (this session)** - I dispatch fresh subagent per task, review between tasks, fast iteration

**2. Parallel Session (separate)** - Open new session with plan-executor, batch execution with checkpoints

**Which approach?"**

**If Subagent-Driven chosen:**
- **REQUIRED SUB-SKILL:** Use `supernova:subagent-engine`
- Stay in this session
- Fresh subagent per task + code review

**If Parallel Session chosen:**
- Guide them to open new session in worktree
- **REQUIRED SUB-SKILL:** New session uses `supernova:plan-executor`

---

## Remember

- Exact file paths always
- Complete code in plan (not "add validation")
- Exact commands with expected output
- DRY, YAGNI, TDD, frequent commits
- Reference relevant skills with `supernova:` prefix

Commit message:

feat: upgrade Supernova naming, platform config, and repo standards
- Renamed 23 skills and commands to meet new naming convention (no -agent suffix)
- Updated unified /nova command and internal skill references
- Rewrote INSTALL.md for all 5 platforms with autonomous AI-install steps
- Integrated asset templates into orchestrator and plan-writer skills
- Deleted orphaned docs/ directory and cleaned up stale references in assets/
- Added .github/CONTRIBUTING.md and .github/SECURITY.md

skills/plan-writer/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: plan-writer
description: "Use when you have a spec or requirements for a multi-step task, before touching code. Creates comprehensive implementation plans with bite-sized tasks assuming zero codebase context. Triggers - plan, write plan, implementation plan, break this down."
license: MIT
metadata:
  version: "1.0.1"
  priority: "6"
argument-hint: "[design-doc-or-spec]"
disable-model-invocation: false
user-invocable: true
context: fork
agent: general-purpose
allowed-tools: Read Glob Grep Bash(git:*) Bash(find:*)
---

# PlanWriter - Implementation Planning

Write comprehensive implementation plans assuming the engineer has **zero context** for the codebase and questionable taste. Document everything they need: which files to touch, complete code, testing steps, verification commands. Deliver as bite-sized tasks.

**Announce at start:** "I'm using the plan-writer skill to create the implementation plan."

**Input:** Design document from `design-agent` + Context Snapshot from `context-agent`.

**Save plans to:** `docs/plans/YYYY-MM-DD-<feature-name>.md`

---

## Bite-Sized Task Granularity

**Each step is one action (2-5 minutes):**
- "Write the failing test" - step
- "Run it to make sure it fails" - step
- "Implement the minimal code to make the test pass" - step
- "Run the tests and make sure they pass" - step
- "Commit" - step

---

## Plan Document Header

**Every plan MUST start with this header:**

```markdown
# [Feature Name] Implementation Plan

> **For Claude:** REQUIRED SUB-SKILL: Use supernova:plan-executor to implement this plan task-by-task.

**Goal:** [One sentence describing what this builds]

**Architecture:** [2-3 sentences about approach]

**Tech Stack:** [Key technologies/libraries]

---
```

## Task Structure

````markdown
### Task N: [Component Name]

**Files:**
- Create: `exact/path/to/file.py`
- Modify: `exact/path/to/existing.py:123-145`
- Test: `tests/exact/path/to/test.py`

**Step 1: Write the failing test**

```python
def test_specific_behavior():
    result = function(input)
    assert result == expected
```

**Step 2: Run test to verify it fails**

Run: `pytest tests/path/test.py::test_name -v`
Expected: FAIL with "function not defined"

**Step 3: Write minimal implementation**

```python
def function(input):
    return expected
```

**Step 4: Run test to verify it passes**

Run: `pytest tests/path/test.py::test_name -v`
Expected: PASS

**Step 5: Commit**

```bash
git add tests/path/test.py src/path/file.py
git commit -m "feat: add specific feature"
```
````

---

## Execution Handoff

After saving the plan, offer execution choice:

**"Plan complete and saved to `docs/plans/<filename>.md`. Two execution options:**

**1. Subagent-Driven (this session)** - I dispatch fresh subagent per task, review between tasks, fast iteration

**2. Parallel Session (separate)** - Open new session with plan-executor, batch execution with checkpoints

**Which approach?"**

**If Subagent-Driven chosen:**
- **REQUIRED SUB-SKILL:** Use `supernova:subagent-engine`
- Stay in this session
- Fresh subagent per task + code review

**If Parallel Session chosen:**
- Guide them to open new session in worktree
- **REQUIRED SUB-SKILL:** New session uses `supernova:plan-executor`

---

## Templates

- **PRD format:** see `assets/PRD-TEMPLATE.md` for the standard PRD structure
- **Task list schema:** see `assets/TASK-LIST-TEMPLATE.json` for the JSON task list format

---

## Remember

- Exact file paths always
- Complete code in plan (not "add validation")
- Exact commands with expected output
- DRY, YAGNI, TDD, frequent commits
- Reference relevant skills with `supernova:` prefix
